502 - Adding "Agility Team Manifesto" and methods md (#503)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: agile-development/team-agreements/team-manifesto/readme.md

# Team Manifesto

## Introduction

CSE teams work with a new development team in each customer engagement which requires a phase of introduction & knowledge transfer before starting an engagement.

> Completion of this phase of ice-breakers and discussions around the standards takes time however also required to start increasing the learning curve of the new team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Completion of this phase of ice-breakers and discussions around the standards takes time, but is required to start increasing the learning curve of the new team.
```

> A team manifesto is a soft contract among team members which summarizes the basic principles and values of the team and aiming to provide a consensus about

Reviewer: nit: remove newline after about

Author: you are right
these newlines are because of my linter, it blocks me for committing without some lines/spaces. I will disable the rules :) thanks

Author: fixed in commit 99577bdb010e37487147d760384d41168c152334

expectations from each team member in order to deliver high quality output at the end of each engagement.

> It aims to reduce the time on setting the right expectations and providing a consensus among team members as well as clarifying the question of "How does the new team develop the software?"

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence, can you clarify a bit what you mean here?

Author: kindly check if it's clear now in 39192e09c809ea42f7c2506041b7348d73761940 ? thanks :)

> Another main goal of the manifesto is providing a discussion environment during "manifesto building session" and detect the gaps/differences in certain topics for each member during these discussions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another main goal of writing the manifesto is to start a conversation during the "manifesto building session" to detect any differences of opinion around how the team should work.
```

Author: 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

> It also serves in the same way when a new team member joins to the team. It gives a short summary of standards and if the new team member asks any question about any topic, this is a good thing to understand the improvement area and take the required actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new team member joins to the team, they can quickly get up to speed on the agreed standards.
```

Author: 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

## How to Build a Team Manifesto

It can be said that the best time to start building it is at the very early phase of the engagement when teams meet with each other for swarming or during the preparation phase.

It is recommended to keep team manifesto as simple as possible, so preferably, one-page simple document which **doesn't include any references or links** is a nice format for it.

> If there is a need for providing knowledge on certain topics, the way to do is delivering brown-bag sessions, technical katas, practices documentations and others later on.

Author: thanks for all your suggestions and fixations @bsherwin ! all rocks !

fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> A few important points about team manifesto;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few important points about the team manifesto
```

> - Team manifesto is built by the **team itself**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The team manifesto is built by the team itself
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - It can include any technical or behavioural agility topics as soon as team find it relevant,

Author: fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> - It can include any technical or behavioural agility topics as soon as team find it relevant,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It can include any technical or behavioral agility topics that the team finds relevant
```

Author: 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - It aims to have a common understanding about the desired expertise, practices and/or behaviours within the team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It aims to give a common understanding about the desired expertise, practices and/or behaviors within the team
```

Reviewer: I am not fully following this, how does a team manifesto give a common understanding about desired expertise?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Based on the needs of the team and retrospective results, it can be modified during the engagement.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In Microsoft, we have certain standards to build high quality and well-crafted software as well as to give comfortable/transparent environment to each team member for helping her/him to reach her/his highest potential.

Reviewer 2: maybe simpler just to use "them" and "their" over he/she pronouns.

Author: fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> In Microsoft, we have certain standards to build high quality and well-crafted software as well as to give comfortable/transparent environment to each team member for helping her/him to reach her/his highest potential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CSE, we aim for quality over quantity, and well-crafted software as well as to a comfortable/transparent environment where each team member can reach their highest potential.
```

Author: 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The difference of team manifesto from other comprehensive set of standards/practices documents is, it is used to give a short summary of the upcoming way of working and practices to prepare a base before deep dive starts with open discussion environment in an ice-breaker way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between the team manifesto and other team documents is that it is used to give a short summary of expectations of how we should behave and work in the team, before we dive into the technical work.
```

Author: just changed the end of the sentence with "code with sprint" instead of technical work but mostly applied in commit 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

| Topic | What is it about ? |
|-|-|
| Collective Ownership | Does team own the code rather than individuals? And what is the expectation? |
| Respect | Any preferred statement about it's a "must-have" team value |
| Collaboration | Any preferred statement about how does team want to collaborate ? |
| Transparency | A simple statement about it's a "must-have" team value and if preferred, how does this being provided by the team ? meetings, retrospective, feedback mechanisms ..etc. |
| Craftpersonship | Which tools such as Git, VS Code LiveShare, ..etc. are being used ? What is the definition of expected best usage of them? |
| PR sizing | What does team prefer in PRs ? |
| Branching | Team's branching strategy and standards |
| Commit standards | Preferred format in commit messages, rules and more |
| Clean Code | Does team follow clean code principles ? |
| Pair/Mob Programming | Will team apply pair/mob programming ? If yes, what programming styles are suitable for the team ? |
| Release Process | Principles around release proicess such as quality gates, reviewing process ...etc. |
| Code Review | Any rule for code reviewing such as min number of reviewers, team rules ...etc. |

> | Action Readiness | How the backlog will be groomed ? What will be the way for clear DoD and ACs ? |

Reviewer 2: "How the backlog will be refined?"

Author: fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> | Action Readiness | How the backlog will be groomed ? What will be the way for clear DoD and ACs ? |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Action Readiness | How the backlog will be refined? How do we ensure clear Definition of Done and Acceptance Criteria ? |
```

Author: 493c61df34e91f74e503658642e0a329692b61f2

> | TDD | Will team follow TDD ? |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TDD | Will the team follow TDD ? |
```

| Test Coverage | Is there any expected number, percentage or measurement ?  |
| Dimensions in Testing | Required tests for high quality software, eg : unit, integration, functional, performance, regression, acceptance |
| Build process | build for all? or not; The clear statement of where code and under what conditions code should work ? eg : OS, DevOps, tool dependency |
| Bug fix | The rules of bug fixing in the team ? eg: contact people, attaching PR to the issue ..etc. |
| Technical debt | How does team manage/follow it?  |
| Refactoring | How does team manage/follow it? |
| Agile Documentation | Does team want to use diagrams and tables more rather than detailed KB articles ? |
| Efficient Documentation | When is it necessary ? Is it a prerequisite to complete tasks/PRs ..etc.? |
| Definition of Fun | How will we have fun for relaxing/enjoying the team spirit during the engagement? |

## Tools

Generally team sessions are enough for building a manifesto and having a consensus around it.

> And if there is a need for improving it in a structured way, [This guy, That guy*](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/) or other retrospective tools can be used.

Reviewer 2: Probably just go with "Building a Team Manifesto" rather than "This guy, That guy"

Author: fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> And if there is a need for improving it in a structured way, [This guy, That guy*](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/) or other retrospective tools can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And if there is a need for improving it in a structured way, [Building a team Manifesto](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/) or other retrospective tools can be used.
```

## Resources

> [This guy, That guy*](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/)

Reviewer 2: Same here

Author: fixed commit b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> [This guy, That guy*](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Building a team manifesto](https://www.scrum.nl/blog/building-team-manifesto/)
```

Author: this was fixed in b07b8657c0ea24e73211d9bfc93994abe9cf3545

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [Technical Agility*](https://v46.scaledagileframework.com/team-and-technical-agility/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Technical Agility*](https://v46.scaledagileframework.com/team-and-technical-agility/)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [Team Building and Retrospective activities*](https://www.funretrospectives.com/category/team-building/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Team Building and Retrospective activities*](https://www.funretrospectives.com/category/team-building/)
```
